ğ…ğ¥ğ¢ğ©ğ¤ğšğ«ğ­ ğˆğ§ğ­ğğ«ğ¯ğ¢ğğ° ğ„ğ±ğ©ğğ«ğ¢ğğ§ğœğ ( off-campus )

ğ‘1 (coding round, level: medium-hard, duration: 60mins): 
Consists of three problems; 
->the first was basically a simple math formula-based problem, 
->the second was Sieve of Eratosthenes + dp problem, 
->the third was given a 2D grid. You have to tell the person's initial health so that he can reach the bottom-right part of the grid, and while traveling, his health can go up or down based on the value present in the cell. 
(His health has to be positive throughout the journey). (The problem setter took the Dungeon game problem from Leetcode and flipped it; it's a well-known problem).

ğ‘2 ( PS/DS round 1, level: medium, duration: 60 mins): 
It consists of 2 DSA problems. 
->First was given two strings, s and t, you have to determine whether s is a subsequence of t.
(SOLUTION: use two pointer approach -> iterate over s while keeping a matching pointer over t, if pointer over t reaches end, is a subsequence. EDGE CASE : empty s or t)

->Second problem was given two vectors; first is the fuel (fuel present at the present station) and cost (fuel required to reach the next station), 
you have to return the starting index so that we can do a circular tour (gas station problem on leetcode).

ğ‘3(PS/DS round 2, level: something between medium and medium-hard, duration: 60 mins): 
It consists of 2 DSA problems. 
->First one was given an array; you have to find its local peak (in log(n) complexity obv), and arr[-1] and arr[n] one can assume to be negative infinity; 
->Second problem was given a binary tree, each node has some funds allocated; a robber wants to steal the maximum funds possible, but he can't steal from two consecutive nodes (parents and child, both basically); 
the tree input was given in the form of an array. First, I was required to convert the array to a binary tree and then solve the problem. (house robber on binary tree, basically)

ğ‘4 (Hiring Manager, duration: 50 mins): In this round, the Interviewer mainly discussed my resume, what work I did in my internship and my projects. 
There was a lot of cross-questioning based on my work, and apart from that, some situation based questions were asked, 
such as if multiple teams were working on a project, and others are working slowly what will you do, or let's say you are new to some given tech stack and have a deadline for a given project, 
how would you allocate your time? Some technical questions at the end are: What's the difference between stack and heap, and what can be the possible states of a thread?

ğ€ğ§ğšğ¥ğ²ğ¬ğ¢ğ¬: Except for the hiring manager round, the focus was on my problem-solving ability, how well I can convey my solution, and how well I can convert my idea/thought into a fully working solution, 
the problems was mostly medium level. The last round was mainly discussion of my work and whether I was culturally fit for the company.





FLIPKART DATA ANALYST - https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rituraj-singh-gour-bb7721171_flipkart-sr-data-analyst-interview-experience-ugcPost-7244192104782950400-hM5N?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop


