What do you mean by network topology?
Network topology specifies the layout of a computer network. It shows how devices and cables are connected to each other. The types of topologies are:

Bus:
    Bus topology is a network topology in which all the nodes are connected to a single cable known as a central cable or bus.
    It acts as a shared communication medium, i.e., if any device wants to send the data to other devices, then it will send the data over the bus which in turn sends the data to all the attached devices.
    Bus topology is useful for a small number of devices. As if the bus is damaged then the whole network fails.

Star:
    Star topology is a network topology in which all the nodes are connected to a single device known as a central device.
    Star topology requires more cable compared to other topologies. Therefore, it is more robust as a failure in one cable will only disconnect a specific computer connected to this cable.
    If the central device is damaged, then the whole network fails.
    Star topology is very easy to install, manage and troubleshoot.
    Star topology is commonly used in office and home networks.

Ring
    Ring topology is a network topology in which nodes are exactly connected to two or more nodes and thus, forming a single continuous path for the transmission.
    It does not need any central server to control the connectivity among the nodes.
    If the single node is damaged, then the whole network fails.
    Ring topology is very rarely used as it is expensive, difficult to install and manage.
    Examples of Ring topology are SONET network, SDH network, etc.

Mesh
    Mesh topology is a network topology in which all the nodes are individually connected to other nodes.
    It does not need any central switch or hub to control the connectivity among the nodes.
    Mesh topology is categorized into two parts:
        Fully connected mesh topology: In this topology, all the nodes are connected to each other.
        Partially connected mesh topology: In this topology, all the nodes are not connected to each other.
    It is a robust as a failure in one cable will only disconnect the specified computer connected to this cable.
    Mesh topology is rarely used as installation and configuration are difficult when connectivity gets more.
    Cabling cost is high as it requires bulk wiring.

Tree
    Tree topology is a combination of star and bus topology. It is also known as the expanded star topology.
    In tree topology, all the star networks are connected to a single bus.
    Ethernet protocol is used in this topology.
    In this, the whole network is divided into segments known as star networks which can be easily maintained. If one segment is damaged, but there is no effect on other segments.
    Tree topology depends on the "main bus," and if it breaks, then the whole network gets damaged.

Hybrid
    A hybrid topology is a combination of different topologies to form a resulting topology.
    If star topology is connected with another star topology, then it remains star topology. If star topology is connected with different topology, then it becomes a Hybrid topology.
    It provides flexibility as it can be implemented in a different network environment.
    The weakness of a topology is ignored, and only strength will be taken into consideration.



What is a gateway? Is there any difference between a gateway and router?
A node that is connected to two or more networks is commonly known as a gateway. It is also known as a router. It is used to forward messages from one network to another. 
Both the gateway and router regulate the traffic in the network.

Differences between gateway and router:
A router sends the data between two similar networks while gateway sends the data between two dissimilar networks.


What is DNS?
DNS is an acronym stands for Domain Name System.
    It is a naming system for all the resources over the internet which includes physical nodes and applications. It is used to locate to resource easily over a network.
    DNS is an internet which maps the domain names to their associated IP addresses.
    Without DNS, users must know the IP address of the web page that you wanted to access.
Working of DNS:
If you want to visit the website of "javaTpoint", then the user will type "https://www.javatpoint.com" into the address bar of the web browser. 
Once the domain name is entered, then the domain name system will translate the domain name into the IP address which can be easily interpreted by the computer. 
Using the IP address, the computer can locate the web page requested by the user.


What is DNS forwarder?
    A forwarder is used with DNS server when it receives DNS queries that cannot be resolved quickly. So it forwards those requests to external DNS servers for resolution.
    A DNS server which is configured as a forwarder will behave differently than the DNS server which is not configured as a forwarder.
    Following are the ways that the DNS server behaves when it is configured as a forwarder:
        When the DNS server receives the query, then it resolves the query by using a cache.
        If the DNS server is not able to resolve the query, then it forwards the query to another DNS server.
        If the forwarder is not available, then it will try to resolve the query by using root hint.


Difference between TCP/IP model
Full form of TCP is transmission control protocol.
	Full form of OSI is Open System Interconnection.

TCP/IP has 4 layers.
	OSI has 7 layers.

TCP/IP is more reliable than the OSI model.
	OSI model is less reliable as compared to the TCP/IP model.

TCP/IP model uses horizontal approach.
	OSI model uses vertical approach.

TCP/IP model uses both session and presentation layer in the application layer.
	OSI Reference model uses separate session and presentation layers.

TCP/IP model developed the protocols first and then model.
	OSI model developed the model first and then protocols.

In Network layer, TCP/IP model supports only connectionless communication.
	In the Network layer, the OSI model supports both connection-oriented and connectionless communication.

TCP/IP model is a protocol dependent.
	OSI model is a protocol independent.



What is RAID?
RAID (redundant array of independent disks) is a way of storing the same data in different places on multiple hard disks or solid-state drives (SSDs) to protect data in the case of a drive failure. 
RAID (Redundant Array of Independent Disks) is a storage technology that uses multiple hard disk drives to provide fault tolerance.

How it works
RAID stores the same data on multiple hard disks or solid-state drives (SSDs) to protect data if a drive fails. 

Benefits
RAID improves the processing capability of storage systems, and increases speed, fault tolerance, and redundancy compared to a single disk. 

RAID levels
Different RAID levels offer different fault tolerance and performance trade-offs: 
RAID 1: Mirrors data on multiple disks, but requires more space for less data 
RAID 5: Strips data across disks, but doesn't provide the same disk speed as RAID 0. It requires at least three disks and offers fault tolerance without data loss 
RAID 6: Uses two parity stripes on each disk, allowing for up to two disk failures within the RAID set before any data loss. It requires at least four disks and offers increased read speeds with minimal impact to write performance 



What is an IPv4 address? What are the different classes of IPv4?
An IP address is a 32-bit dynamic address of a node in the network. An IPv4 address has 4 octets of 8-bit each with each number with a value up to 255.
IPv4 classes are differentiated based on the number of hosts it supports on the network. 
There are five types of IPv4 classes and are based on the first octet of IP addresses which are classified as Class A, B, C, D, or E.

IPv4 Class 	IPv4 Start Address 	IPv4 End Address 	Usage
A 	0.0.0.0 	127.255.255.255 	Used for Large Network
B 	128.0.0.0 	191.255.255.255 	Used for Medium Size Network
C 	192.0.0.0 	223.255.255.255 	Used for Local Area Network
D 	224.0.0.0 	239.255.255.255 	Reserved for Multicasting
E 	240.0.0.0 	255.255.255.254 	Study and R&D




OSI Reference Model
Open System Interconnections (OSI) is a network architecture model based on the ISO standards. 
It is called the OSI model as it deals with connecting the systems that are open for communication with other systems.
The OSI model has seven layers. 

Here the 7 layers of the OSI reference model:
Layer 	Unit Exchanged 	Description

Physical 	Bit 	
    It is concerned with transmitting raw bits over a communication channel.
    Chooses which type of transmission mode is to be selected for the transmission. The available transmission modes are Simplex, Half Duplex and Full Duplex.,

Data Link 	Frame 	
    The main task of this layer is to transform a raw transmission facility into a line that appears free of undetected transmission errors.
    It also allows detecting damaged packets using the CRC (Cyclic Redundancy Check) error-detecting, code.
    When more than one node is connected to a shared link, Data Link Layer protocols are required to determine which device has control over the link at a given time.
    It is implemented by protocols like CSMA/CD, CSMA/CA, ALOHA, and Token Passing.

Network 	Packet 	
    It controls the operation of the subnet.
    The network layer takes care of feedback messaging through ICMP messages.

Transport 	TPDU - Transaction Protocol Data Unit 	
    The basic functionality of this layer is to accept data from the above layers, split it up into smaller units if needed, pass these to the network layer, and ensure that all the pieces arrive correctly at the other end.
    The Transport Layer takes care of Segmentation and Reassembly.

Session 	SPDU - Session Protocol Data Unit 	
    The session layer allows users on different machines to establish sessions between them.
    Dialogue control is using the full-duplex link as half-duplex. It sends out dummy packets from the client to the server when the client is ideal.

Presentation 	PPDU - Presentation Protocol Data Unit 	
    The presentation layer is concerned with the syntax and semantics of the information transmitted.
    It translates a message from a common form to the encoded format which will be understood by the receiver.

Application 	APDU - Application Protocol Data Unit 	
    It contains a variety of protocols that are commonly needed by users.
    The application layer sends data of any size to the transport layer.



TCP/IP Reference Model
It is a compressed version of the OSI model with only 4 layers. It was developed by the US Department of Defence (DoD) in the 1980s. 
The name of this model is based on 2 standard protocols used i.e. TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and IP (Internet Protocol).

Layers of TCP/IP
Link -	Decides which links such as serial lines or classic Ethernet must be used to meet the needs of the connectionless internet layer.
Internet - The internet layer is the most important layer which holds the whole architecture together. It delivers the IP packets where they are supposed to be delivered.
Transport - Its functionality is almost the same as the OSI transport layer. It enables peer entities on the network to carry on a conversation.
Application - It contains all the higher-level protocols.




OSI Reference Model 	TCP/IP Reference Model
7 layered architecture 	4 layered architecture
Fixed boundaries and functionality for each layer 	Flexible architecture with no strict boundaries between layers
Low Reliability 	High Reliability
Vertical Layer Approach 	Horizontal Layer Approach


HTTP and the HTTPS protocol?
HTTP is the HyperText Transfer Protocol which defines the set of rules and standards on how the information can be transmitted on the World Wide Web (WWW).  
It helps the web browsers and web servers for communication. It is a ‘stateless protocol’ where each command is independent with respect to the previous command. 
HTTP is an application layer protocol built upon the TCP. It uses port 80 by default.

HTTPS is the HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure or Secure HTTP. It is an advanced and secured version of HTTP. 
On top of HTTP, SSL/TLS protocol is used to provide security. It enables secure transactions by encrypting the communication and also helps identify network servers securely. 
It uses port 443 by default.


UDP protocol?
UDP is the User Datagram Protocol and is based on Datagrams. Mainly, it is used for multicasting and broadcasting. 
Its functionality is almost the same as TCP/IP Protocol except for the three ways of handshaking and error checking. 
It uses a simple transmission without any hand-shaking which makes it less reliable.


MAC Address 	IP Address
Media Access Control Address 	Internet Protocol Address
6 or 8-byte hexadecimal number 	4 (IPv4) or 16 (IPv6) Byte address
It is embedded with NIC 	It is obtained from the network
Physical Address 	Logical Address
Operates at Data Link Layer 	Operates at Network Layer.
Helps to identify the device 	Helps to identify the device connectivity on the network.


What is a subnet?
A subnet is a network inside a network achieved by the process called subnetting which helps divide a network into subnets. 
It is used for getting a higher routing efficiency and enhances the security of the network. It reduces the time to extract the host address from the routing table.


difference between the ipconfig and the ifconfig?
ipconfig 	                        ifconfig
Internet Protocol Configuration 	Interface Configuration
Command used in Microsoft operating systems to view and configure network interfaces 	Command used in MAC, Linux, UNIX operating systems to view and configure network interfaces


In which OSI layer is the header and trailer added?
At the Data link layer trailer is added and at the OSI model layer 6,5,4,3 added header.

What happens in the OSI model, as a data packet moves from the lower to upper layers?
In the OSI model, as a data packet moves from the lower to upper layers, headers get removed.

What happens in the OSI model, as a data packet moves from the upper to lower layers?
In the OSI model, as a data packet moves from the upper to lower layers, headers are added. This header contains useful information.


